---
title: AT&T Hackathon 2019
author: Jan Buchmaier
layout: post
---

## When?
On 22.11. od 8:00 to 23.11. 17:00
## Where?
At  BVV in Pavilion E
## What?
From Friday 22.11 until Sunday you could compete in AT&T Hackathon in Brno. After all fifteen teams arrived from all around the Czech Republic. Expectations were high, but our team "Ústřední topení" managed to win 3. price which contained 1000 USD. 
## Our idea
The biggest problem for our team was to find a good idea. We had many ideas, but the final one came after 6 hours of thinking. We had many stupid ideas like smart henhouse or system for managing Co-working spaces that already exist. In the final presentation, some other teams were probably inspired by these ideas and realize them. We choose to work on smart sensors that would measure CO2, temperature, average humidity and amount of light. Because systems like this already existed, we had to add special value. 
## Our solution
Our solution was to come into the company and deploy our sensors. Leave our sensors in the company for 48 hours and then collect them. The sensors would work locally and raspberry pi would be collecting data from sensors. Then we would analyze collected data from raspberry pi and create a report of the situation in the company. The report would be created by a desktop application written in python that would compare hygienic standards with collected data.
## What we missed?
We wanted to create a wooden box for our sensors in FabVan(Fablab van), but we didn't have enough time for this task.
## Conclusion
With my team, we have enjoyed being at this event. Even when we were very tired(after 16 hours) we still programmed. Thanks to the refreshment in the form of free food and drink we were able to last to the end.
## Problems that we faced
We choose to use Big Clown sensors, but we hadn't any previous experience with them. So for the first few hours, we were struggling with them. Our Java backend programmers were waiting a long time before we had data from sensors and they could only guess how will sensors data look like. We also didn't know how to create a PDF in python, so we had to learn it. And finally, there was a presentation. We had only 3 minutes to present our product and convince the jury. 
